let's now bring in Alan Fischer he's
joining us from occupied East Jerusalem
because Alan we've seen really shocking
footage of Israeli forces stripping
Palestinian men detaining them what more
are you hearing from your end about
this well Hamas just in the last hour
has condemned what has happened to the
men calling on international human
rights organizations to inquire and
investigate and essentially to condemn
what has happened of course there are
Echo from history where you see men that
are being stripped and led off to
locations unknown the Israelis say that
the men were apprehended in around
betalia many of them gave themselves up
they are suspected of terrorism and
they're being taken to a facility uh in
Israel to be interrogated also at the
same time around a hundred other men
were detained and they have been taken
to a special interrogation facility that
has been set up in Gaza to find out what
they know and to see if it can can help
the Israeli war effort of course uh
there is criticism of the Israelis for
doing this because many people recognize
very familiar faces in the group some
saying that one was a student one ran
the local store another one had no
connection with terrorism as he lived in
an apartment block and a number of
people identifying a local journalist
among those who were arrested now John
Kirby who is America's National Security
Council spokesman was asked about the
arrest of a journalist and others during
the briefing in the White House in
Thursday this is what he had to
say I'm not going to respond to every
event on the ground and and every
occurrence I haven't seen those images
it would be imprudent for me to comment
on that we don't just as a just as a
general statement that we don't support
any targeting of journalists one way or
another anywhere in the world they have
a a right and a responsibility to be
there reporting on this we believe that
they should be allowed to do their jobs
and we certainly don't uh would never
condone any inhumane uh or violation of
law treatment uh of any innocent
civilian but I can't speak to those
specific
reports of course it would be a
violation of international law for
prisoners of War to be treated this way
for pictures to be taken of them and
then published Daniel hagari who is the
Israeli military spokesman was asked
about the video but didn't address it
directly another spokesman said that
they had no idea where the video came
from but if you look at the video it is
filmed from on the ground and it is
clear there is someone who's within the
area that the Israelis are operating so
it points to either someone from the
shinb the Israeli intelligence service
or an Israeli soldier himself who has
recorded it and released it the big
worry for many International Aid
organizations for human rights
organizations is that it's entirely
unclear where these men have been taken
or what may actually happen to them okay
thank you Alan fiser reporting from
occupied East Jerusalem let's now speak
to Shawan jabarin who's the director of
the West Bank based Palestinian human
rights organiz organization El hak he's
joining us from Morocco's Capital rabbat
welcome to Al jazer thanks for your time
can you first comment on these images
that uh I'm sure you've seen of about a
100 Palestinian men who have been
stripped made to knel on the street in
Northern
Gaza when I saw this first time you know
I was but in the same time um I said
this you know this practice with the one
who killed the children and killed
civilians
uh with the
thousands uh can make something like
that but the first thing jumped in my
mind when I saw the pictures the second
world war to be honest with you how they
treated you know uh uh detes and those
they were arrested or prisoners of War
uh that's the case I think the uh this
any human uh this is a torture it's
amount to torture and uh more than that
uh it's a war crime and the crimes
against the humanity right and there a
lot of questions now about where these
men will be taken to what will happen to
them and Israel being an occupying power
has certain obligations what are these
obligations that would prevent Israel
from treating these Palestinians in this
way uh look Israel is occupying power
first uh Gaza is still occupied uh and
Israel they have no right to do this
even if they are occupation or occupied
occupying power or not uh this is
something it's the minimum minimum level
of a Humanity to treat uh people you
know in a human way that's uh the case
even if they are occupation if they are
not that's this is not the problem but
the main thing is what they are where
they taking them this is also another
question the other question jump to our
mind is how they treated those they were
captured or they were uh arrested uh in
October 7th and October 8th how the
Israeli treated them how many of them
they are still alive right when they
captured them for instance did they kill
them this is an issue where they are now
uh who who who's still alive there are
many many questions so how is your
organization uh how is your
organization which defends human rights
how is it scaling up its response to
these violations in Gaza as well as
violations we see in the occupied West
Bank practically what can you
do look what we do you know we try to
document these things and also uh to uh
write and to call uh for legal uh
actions against the uh Israelis and we
are asking also the international
criminal court to act this is not the
first time and even uh to be honest with
you we are uh concerned about all the
Israeli prisoners and the tenes and you
yourself uh you documented some of the
cases from the people they were released
from bris lately uh in the exchange uh
they are treated badly they torture them
they took their belongings they leave
them with nothing uh they reduce even
the uh the food the quantity quality and
everything water uh for the showers or
bathroom or all of these things this is
how they are treating this is part of
the revenge against also the Palestinian
prisoners we concern about the lives of
the Palestinian prisoners six of them
they were died uh in detention some of
them they were ared just two days before
they passed away uh here there's a big
question about uh how they treated them
right uh this is part of the torture
this is the thing we are concerned uh
and I think Israel they have no right to
move them to uh Israel uh we don't know
where they took them uh now in from Gaza
all right we'll leave it there Shawan
Javari and thank you for speaking to us
from Rabat thank you